Integration instruction notebook: Integration (#597)
AlexsLemonade/training-modules: scRNA-seq-advanced/03-dataset_integration.Rmd

Integration corrects for batch effects that arise from different library preparations, genetic backgrounds, and other sample-specific factors, so that datasets can be jointly analyzed. 
`fastMNN` corrects for batch effects using a faster variant of the mutual-nearest neighbors algorithm, the technical details of which you can learn more about from this [vignette by Lun (2019)](https://marionilab.github.io/FurtherMNN2018/theory/description.html).
`harmony`, on the other hand, corrects for batch effects using an iterative clustering approach, and unlike `fastMNN`, it is also able to consider additional covariates beyond just the batch groupings.

Regardless of which integration tool is used, the `SingleCellExperiment` (SCE) objects first need to be reformatted and merged into a single (uncorrected!) SCE object that contains all cells from all SCES for all genes that the SCEs have in common.
This merged SCE, which should also contain explicit information about batch origins for each cell (here, the originating sample), can be used for integration to obtain a formally batch-corrected SCE object. 

## Set Up

```{r setup}
# Load libraries

> library(magrittr) # access to %>%

Author: Noting I'll do it in the PR where I add `live=TRUE` next.

}

# Define output file name for the integrated object

> integrated_sce_file <- file.path(output_dir, "rms_integrated_samples.rds")

Author: Ah, I had misunderstood! Will revert.

Merging SCEs does not perform any batch correction, but just reorganizes the data to allow us to proceed to integration next.

To merge SCE objects, we do need to do some wrangling and bookkeeping to ensure compatibility and that we don't lose important information.
Overall we'll want to take care of these items: 

1. We should be able to trace sample-specific information back to the originating sample, including...
    - Cell-level information: Which sample is each cell from? 
    SCE column names represent unique cell ids, which are often barcodes.
    These cell ids (barcodes) are only guaranteed to be unique _within_ a library but may be repeated across libraries.
    So, after merging, it's technically possible that multiple cells will have the same barcode.
    This would be a problem for two reasons: First we wouldn't be able to identify the cell's originating sample.
    Second, it would literally cause an error in R, which does not allow duplicate column names.
    We need to be able to map each cell id back to its originating sample name and ensure that these cell id column names remain unique.

>     - Library-specific feature statistics, e.g. gene-level statistics for a given library found in `rowData`

Author: A lot of this seems to be repeated, so I'll delete it from the bullets.

Bear in mind that the exact wrangling shown here will not be the same for other SCE objects you work with, but the same general principles apply.

#### Preserving sample information at the cell level

How will we be able to tell which sample a given cell came from?

> We must ensure that the column names of the SCE object are unique and directly add information to the SCE that indicates the different samples.
> The best way to do this is simply to add a `colData` column with the sample information.

Reviewer: I flipped the order here so we can add the explanation about unique column names here, rather than in the bullet points above. So I copied some text from earlier (but have not directly suggested deleting it there; consider that suggestion implicit).

Update: There is a bit of repetition now with the next paragraphs, I realize, so this will still need a bit more revision! But I do think we say the same thing a few too many times as it stands!

```suggestion
The best way to do this is simply to add a `colData` column with the sample information.

We also must ensure that the column names of the SCE object are unique, even when combined with other SCE objects.
The current column names are cell ids (barcodes) that are only guaranteed to be unique _within_ a sample but may be repeated across samples.
This would be a problem for two reasons: 
First we wouldn't be able to identify the cell's originating sample.
Second, it would literally cause an error in R, which does not allow duplicate column names.
```

Here, the rownames are Ensembl gene IDs, and columns are `gene_symbol`, `mean`, and `detected`. 
The `gene_symbol` column is general information about all genes, not specific to any library or experiment, but `mean` and `detected` are library-specific gene statistics. 
So, `gene_symbol` does not need to be traced back to its originating sample, but `mean` and `detected` do.

> To this end, we can take a similar approach to what we'll do for cell ids: We can change the sample-specific `rowData` column names by prepending the sample name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To this end, we can take a similar approach to what we'll do for cell ids: 
We can change the sample-specific `rowData` column names by prepending the sample name.
```

It's important to remember that this is not a function for general use - it's been precisely written to match the processing we need to do for _these_ SCEs, and different SCEs in the wild will require different types of processing.

```{r format function}
format_sce <- function(sce, sample_name) {
  # Input arguments:
  ## sce: An SCE object to format
  ## sample_name: The SCE object's name
  # This function returns a formatted SCE object.
  
  ###### Ensure that we can identify the originating sample information ######
  # Add a column called `sample` that stores this information
  # This will be stored in `colData`
  sce$sample <- sample_name
  
  
  ###### Ensure cell ids will be unique ######
  # Update the SCE object column names (cell ids) by prepending `sample_name`
 colnames(sce) <- glue::glue("{sample_name}-{colnames(sce)}")
        
  
  ###### Ensure gene-level statistics can be identified in `rowData` ######
  # We want to rename the columns `mean` and `detected` to contain the `sample_name`
  # Recall the names are: "gene_symbol", "mean", "detected"   
  colnames(rowData(sce)) <- c("gene_symbol", 

>                            glue::glue("{sample_name}-mean"),
>                            glue::glue("{sample_name}-detected"))

Reviewer: spacing
```suggestion
                              glue::glue("{sample_name}-mean"),
                              glue::glue("{sample_name}-detected"))
```

# Let's have a look!
merged_sce
```
We now have a single SCE object that contains all cells from all samples we'd like to integrate.

Let's take a peek at some of the innards of this new SCE object:

> ```{r explore merged_sce}

Author: I'll check it all over before merging.

## Integration

So far, we've created a `merged_sce` object which is (almost!) ready for integration.

The integration methods we'll be using here actually perform batch correction on a reduced dimension representation of the normalized gene expression values.
`fastMNN` and `harmony` specifically use PCA for this, but be aware that different integration methods may use other kinds of reduced dimensions!
The main reason for using reduced dimensions is efficiency.

You'll notice that the merged SCE object object already contains PCA and UMAP reduced dimensions, which were calculated during our pre-processing:

```{r merged sce view pca}
reducedDimNames(merged_sce)
```

These represent the original dimension reductions that were performed on _each individual SCE_ before merging, but we actually need to calculate PCA (and UMAP for visualization) from the merged object directly.

Why can't we use the sample-specific PCA and UMAP matrices? 
Part of these calculations themselves involves scaling the raw data to center the mean.

> When this is performed on each sample individually, all samples are separately centered, which leads to the data "overlapping" in space while also influencing coordinates overall.

Reviewer: I want to emphasize this a bit more? I'm not totally sure of the wording, but something like this?
```suggestion
When this is performed on each sample individually, all samples are separately centered, which leads to the data "overlapping" in space.
The mapping function from the original data to the reduced dimensions will also be separately calculated, so the new coordinates won't have consistent meanings across samples.
```

So we'll need to recalculate PCA (and UMAP for visualization) on the merged object. 
We'll also save these new reduced dimensions with different names, `merged_PCA` and `merged_UMAP`, to distinguish them from already-present `PCA` and `UMAP`.

First, as usual, we'll determine the high-variance genes to use for PCA from the `merged_sce` object.
For this, we'll need to provide the argument `block = merged_sce$sample` when modeling gene variance, which tells `scran::modelGeneVar()` to first model variance separately for each batch and then combine those modeling statistics.

```{r calc merged hv_genes}
num_genes <- 2000

# calculate variation for each gene
gene_variance <- scran::modelGeneVar(merged_sce,
                                     # specify the grouping column:
                                     block = merged_sce$sample)

# get the top high-variance genes to use for dimension reduction
hv_genes <- scran::getTopHVGs(gene_variance,
                              n = num_genes)
```

To calculate the PCA matrix itself, we'll use an approach from the `batchelor` package, which is the R package that contains the `fastMNN` method.

> The [`batchelor::multiBatchPCA()`](https://rdrr.io/bioc/batchelor/man/multiBatchPCA.html) function calculates a batch-weighted PCA matrix, namely by ensuring that batches, which may have very different numbers of cells, contribute equally to the overall scaling.

Reviewer: Separating sentences for clarity? You be the judge.
```suggestion
The [`batchelor::multiBatchPCA()`](https://rdrr.io/bioc/batchelor/man/multiBatchPCA.html) function calculates a batch-weighted PCA matrix.
This weighting ensures that all batches, which may have very different numbers of cells, contribute equally to the overall scaling.
```

## Integration

So far, we've created a `merged_sce` object which is (almost!) ready for integration.

The integration methods we'll be using here actually perform batch correction on a reduced dimension representation of the normalized gene expression values.
`fastMNN` and `harmony` specifically use PCA for this, but be aware that different integration methods may use other kinds of reduced dimensions!
The main reason for using reduced dimensions is efficiency.

You'll notice that the merged SCE object object already contains PCA and UMAP reduced dimensions, which were calculated during our pre-processing:

```{r merged sce view pca}
reducedDimNames(merged_sce)
```

These represent the original dimension reductions that were performed on _each individual SCE_ before merging, but we actually need to calculate PCA (and UMAP for visualization) from the merged object directly.

Why can't we use the sample-specific PCA matrix? 
Part of PCA calculation itself involves scaling the raw data to center the mean.
When this is performed on each sample individually, all samples are separately centered, which leads to the data "overlapping" in space.

> To see this, let's look at the UMAP for individual samples:

Reviewer: I just realized there is a bit of handwaving here where you switch from PCA to UMAP, where UMAP is performing its own centering, even without the PCA being centered. I don't think we want to show the PCA plot (we could!), so it might be simpler to just mention that UMAP also centers the data...

I think we also want to say that the dimensions of PCA & UMAP can be different; it isn't just the centering that can be different: how they map to the genes varies too!

```{r individual UMAPs}
# UMAPs scaled separately when calculated from individual samples:
scater::plotReducedDim(merged_sce,
                       dimred = "UMAP",
                       # Color points based on the `sample` variable we added during merging
                       colour_by = "sample",
                       # Include some point styling to help us see the points
                       point_size = 0.5,
                       point_alpha = 0.2) +
  # Modify the legend key so its points are larger and easier to see
  guides(colour = guide_legend(override.aes = list(size = 3, alpha = 1))) +
  # Add a plot title
  ggtitle("UMAP calculated on each sample separately")
```

As we see in this UMAP, all samples are centered at zero and all overlapping!
This visual artifact can give the _incorrect impression_ that data is integrated - to be clear, this data is NOT integrated!

> For input to integration, we'll want the PCA scaling to consider normalized gene expression values from all samples simultaneously, while also taking into consideration batch differences.

Reviewer: I think the final clause is confusing here: people might interpret it to mean that there is batch correction happening here, but it is mostly a weighting for the PCA itself (the gene selection is more of a traditional batch correction)... and we will cover it when we get there.
```suggestion
For input to integration, we'll want the PCA scaling to consider normalized gene expression values from all samples simultaneously.
```

We'll use the [`batchelor::multiBatchPCA()`](https://rdrr.io/bioc/batchelor/man/multiBatchPCA.html) function accommodates the fact that we have separate batches, namely by ensuring that batches, which may have very different numbers of cells, contribute equally to the overall scaling.

```{r merged_pca}
# Use batchelor to calculate PCA from for merged_sce
merged_pca <- batchelor::multiBatchPCA(merged_sce,
                                       # Consider only the high-variance genes
                                       subset.row = hv_genes,
                                       # Batch-level information
                                       batch = merged_sce$sample,
                                       # This argument ensures that the returned object 
                                       #  is a single matrix that contains all samples, 
                                       #  instead of a separate matrix for each sample
                                       preserve.single = TRUE)
 

# This output is not very interesting!
merged_pca

# We can use indexing to see the PCA matrix calculated:

> head(merged_pca[[1]])

Author: I didn't do `[1:5,1:5]` because I worried that was an overwhelming amount of brackets...but this is advanced!

```

Now that we have the PCA matrix, we can proceed to calculate UMAP to visualize the uncorrected merged data.

We'll calculate UMAP as "usual", but in this case we'll specify two additional arguments:

- `dimred = "merged_PCA"`, which specifies which existing reduced dimension should be used for the calculation.

> We want to use the batch-weighted PCA, which is called `"merged_PCA"`.

Reviewer: Just emphasizing this was our choice.
```suggestion
We want to use the batch-weighted PCA, which we named above as `"merged_PCA"`.
```

```

Now that we have the PCA matrix, we can proceed to calculate UMAP to visualize the uncorrected merged data.

We'll calculate UMAP as "usual":
```{r merged_umap}
# add merged_UMAP from merged_PCA

> merged_sce <- scater::runUMAP(merged_sce,

Reviewer 2: It might be worth adding a small comment here that we are explicitly providing the `name` argument, I don't think we've seen this before yet?

  ggtitle("UMAP calculated on merged_sce")
```

> Samples are now separated which more reasonably reflects that this data is _not yet batch-corrected_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Samples are now separated, which more reasonably reflects that this data is _not yet batch-corrected_.
```

There are couple pieces of information here of interest:

- The `corrected` reduced dimension represents the batch-corrected PCA that `fastMNN` calculated. 
- The `reconstructed` assay represents the batch-corrected normalized expression values, which `fastMNN` "back-calculated" from the batch-corrected PCA (`corrected`).
Generally speaking, these expression values are not stand-alone values that you should use for other applications like differential gene expression.
If the `subset.row` argument was provided (as it was here), only genes present in `subset.row` are included in these reconstructed expression values, but this can be overridden so that all genes have reconstructed expression with the argument `correct.all = TRUE`.

We're mostly interested in the PCA that `fastMNN` calculated, so let's save that information (with an informative and unique name!) into our `merged_sce` object:

```{r fastmnn pcs}

> # TODO: Should we make this `fastmnn_PCA` (lowercase method) to match the DE notebook? I think this is probably low stakes consistency

Reviewer 2: Noting that this comment should now be removed. 
```suggestion
```

There are couple pieces of information here of interest:

> - The `corrected` reduced dimension represents the batch-corrected PCA that `fastMNN` calculated from the `logcounts` assay in the `merged_sce`. 

Reviewer: We probably want to clarify that this is _not_ the `multiBatchPCA` result, which I think saying it comes from the `logcounts` makes it sound like. 

Maybe we can describe multiBatchPCA as "batch-weighted", whereas this one is actually "batch-corrected"?

```suggestion
- The `corrected` reduced dimension represents the batch-corrected PCA that `fastMNN` calculated. 
```

- The `reconstructed` assay represents the batch-corrected normalized expression values, which `fastMNN` "back-calculated" from the batch-corrected PCA (`corrected`).
Generally speaking, these expression values are not stand-alone values that you should use for other applications like differential gene expression.
If the `subset.row` argument was provided (as it was here), only genes present in `subset.row` are included in these reconstructed expression values, but this can be overridden so that all genes have reconstructed expression with the argument `correct.all = TRUE`.

We're mostly interested in the PCA that `fastMNN` calculated, so let's save that information (with an informative and unique name!) into our `merged_sce` object:

```{r fastmnn pcs}

> # TODO: Should we make this `fastmnn_PCA` (lowercase method) to match the DE notebook? I think this is probably low stakes consistency

Reviewer: I voted yes in the other notebook, so I vote yes here too!

> # TODO: Should we make this `fastmnn_PCA` (lowercase method) to match the DE notebook? I think this is probably low stakes consistency

Author: Yes it is!

If the `subset.row` argument was provided (as it was here), only genes present in `subset.row` are included in these reconstructed expression values, but this can be overridden so that all genes have reconstructed expression with the argument `correct.all = TRUE`.

We're mostly interested in the PCA that `fastMNN` calculated, so let's save that information (with an informative and unique name!) into our `merged_sce` object:

```{r fastmnn pcs}
# Make a new reducedDim named fastmnn_PCA from the corrected reducedDim in integrated_sce
reducedDim(merged_sce, "fastmnn_PCA") <- reducedDim(integrated_sce, "corrected")

merged_sce
```

Finally, we'll calculate UMAP from these corrected PCA matrix for visualization.
```{r fastmnn umap}
# Calculate UMAP
merged_sce <- scater::runUMAP(
  merged_sce, 
  # create UMAP from this PCA matrix:
  dimred = "fastmnn_PCA", 
  # name the UMAP:
  name = "fastmnn_UMAP"
)
```

First, let's plot the integrated UMAP highlighting the different batches.
A well-integrated dataset will show batch mixing, but a poorly-integrated dataset will show more separation among batches, similar to the uncorrected UMAP.

> Note that this is a more qualitative way to assess the success of integration, but there are formal metrics one can use to assess batch mixing.

Reviewer: Do we want to link to OSCA for some of these? Maybe just a link to http://bioconductor.org/books/3.15/OSCA.multisample/correction-diagnostics.html?

Author: Done w/ a `3.16` link.

```

This `fastMNN_UMAP` certainly looks different from the one we made from `merged_UMAP`!
What trends do you see? 
Do all samples look "equally well" integrated, from a first look?

Importantly, one reason that batches may still appear separated in the corrected UMAP is if they _should_ be separated - for example, maybe two batches contain very different cell types, have very different diagnoses, or may be from different patients.

> Recall from earlier, we conveniently have cell type annotations in our SCEs, so we can explore those here!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recall from earlier that we conveniently have cell type annotations in our SCEs, so we can explore those here!
```

Let's take a quick detour to see what kinds of cell types are in this data by making a barplot of the cell types across samples:

```{r explore celltypes}
# Cell types are stored in the `celltype_broad` and `celltype_fine` columns in the SCE
merged_sce_df <-  as.data.frame(colData(merged_sce)) 

ggplot(merged_sce_df, 
       aes(x = sample, 
           fill = celltype_broad)
) +
  # Barplot of celltype counts, arranged horizontally

>   geom_bar(position = position_dodge()) + 

Reviewer: For consistency with later, plot by fraction?
```suggestion
  geom_bar(position = "fill") + 
```

  # Use a CVD-friendly color scheme
  scale_fill_brewer(palette = "Dark2", na.value = "grey80") +
  theme_bw() 
```
We see that Tumor cell types are by far the most prevalent across all samples, and normal tissue cell types are not very common.

> We see also that `SCPCL000481` seems to unique have a larger `Tumor_Myocyte` population, while all other samples have larger `Tumor_Mesoderm` populations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We see also that `SCPCL000481` has a larger `Tumor_Myocyte` population, while all other samples have larger `Tumor_Mesoderm` populations. 
```

```

This `fastmnn_UMAP` certainly looks different from the one we made from `merged_UMAP`!
What different trends do you see? 
Do all samples look "equally well" integrated, from a first look?

Importantly, one reason that batches may still appear separated in the corrected UMAP is if they _should_ be separated - for example, maybe two batches contain very different cell types, have very different diagnoses, or may be from different patients.

Recall from earlier that we conveniently have cell type annotations in our SCEs, so we can explore those here!
Let's take a quick detour to see what kinds of cell types are in this data by making a barplot of the cell types across samples:

```{r explore celltypes}
# Cell types are stored in the `celltype_broad` and `celltype_fine` columns in the SCE
merged_sce_df <-  as.data.frame(colData(merged_sce)) 

ggplot(merged_sce_df, 
       aes(x = sample, 
           fill = celltype_broad)
) +
  # Barplot of celltype counts, arranged horizontally
  geom_bar(position = "fill") + 
  # Use a CVD-friendly color scheme
  scale_fill_brewer(palette = "Dark2", na.value = "grey80") +
  # nicer theme
  theme_bw() 

> ```
> We see that Tumor cell types are by far the most prevalent across all samples, and normal tissue cell types are not very common.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

We see that Tumor cell types are by far the most prevalent across all samples, and normal tissue cell types are not very common.
````

harmony_pca[1:5, 1:5]
```

As we did with `fastMNN` results, let's store this PCA matrix directly in our `merged_sce` object with an informative name that won't overwrite any of the existing PCA matrices.
We'll also calculate UMAP from it.

```{r save harmony}
# Store PCA as `harmony_PCA`
reducedDim(merged_sce, "harmony_PCA") <- harmony_pca

# As before, calculate UMAP on this PCA matrix:
merged_sce <- scater::runUMAP(merged_sce, 
                              dimred = "harmony_PCA", 
                              name   = "harmony_UMAP")
```

Let's see how the `harmony` UMAP, colored by sample, looks compared to the `fastMNN` UMAP:

```{r harmony umap batches}
scater::plotReducedDim(merged_sce,
                       dimred = "harmony_UMAP",
                       colour_by = "sample",
                       point_size = 0.5,
                       point_alpha = 0.2) +
  ggtitle("UMAP after integration with harmony") +
  guides(colour = guide_legend(override.aes = list(size = 3, alpha = 1))) 
```
How do you think this `harmony` UMAP compares to that from `fastMNN` integration?

Let's see how this UMAP looks colored by cell type, and faceted for visibility:

> ```{r harmony umap celltypes fine}

Reviewer: Updating to match content
````suggestion
```{r harmony umap celltypes broad}
````

One way we can see all the points a bit better is to facet the plot by sample, using `facet_wrap()` from the `ggplot2` package (which we can do because `scater::plotReducedDim()` returns a `ggplot2` object):

```{r fastmnn umap celltype faceted}
scater::plotReducedDim(merged_sce,
                       dimred = "fastMNN_UMAP",
                       colour_by = "celltype_broad",
                       point_size = 0.5,
                       point_alpha = 0.2,
                       # Allow for faceting by a variable using `other_fields`:
                       other_fields = "celltype_broad") +
  guides(colour = guide_legend(override.aes = list(size = 3, alpha = 1))) +
  ggtitle("UMAP after integration with fastMNN") +
  # Facet by celltype_broad
  facet_wrap(vars(celltype_broad)) +
  # Use a theme with background grid to more easily compare panel coordinates
  theme_bw() 
```

All `Tumor` cell types appear to group with one another, with the main exception of `Tumor_Mesoderm` (along with what looks like one `Tumor_Myoblast` cell) for which a small number of cells are located with healthy muscle tissue.

> This _potentially_ suggests that these Tumor cells were incorrectly classified and are actually not cancerous, which is a hypothesis one could further explore, but on the other hand RMS does share many features with muscle tissue.

Reviewer 2: I think I would rephrase this and instead of saying that the tumor cells were maybe misclassified, say that there are multiple options for this to happen such as misclassification, cells share similar patterns with another cell type. That way you present them as both equally possible and aren't really giving an opinion either way since we aren't disease experts.

Reviewer: I might also just leave this out? We can let people make their own hypotheses!

### Integration with `harmony`

`fastMNN` is only one of many approaches to perform integration, and different methods have different capabilities and are not unlikely to give different results.

> For example some methods can accommodate additional covariates (e.g., technology, patient, diagnosis, etc.) that may influence integration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, some methods can accommodate additional covariates (e.g., technology, patient, diagnosis, etc.) that may influence integration. 
```

In fact the data we are using has a known _patient_ covariate; `SCPCL000479` and `SCPCL000480` are from the first patient, and `SCPCL000481` and `SCPCL000482` are from the second patient.

So, let's perform integration with a method that can use this information - [`harmony`](https://portals.broadinstitute.org/harmony/)!

> One such method is , which (algorithm aside) has a couple practical differences from `fastMNN`:

Reviewer 2: This sentence is confusing to me. I think the beginning part is unfinished?

Author: Ah, it should include the word `harmony` 😂

Reviewer: Then these two sentences are redundant? Or at least the "one such method" part...
```suggestion
Algorithm aside, `harmony` has a few practical differences from `fastMNN`:
```

Author: Ah yes, this sentence should just go away. Revision problems.

To begin setting up for `harmony` integration, we need to add explicit patient information into our merged SCE.
We'll create a new column `patient` whose value is either "A" or "B" depending on the given sample name, using the [`dplyr::case_when()`](https://dplyr.tidyverse.org/reference/case_when.html).

```{r add patient info}
# Create patient column with values "A" or "B" for the two patients
merged_sce$patient <- dplyr::case_when(
  # Assign a value of "A" if the sample is one of these
  merged_sce$sample %in% c("SCPCL000479", "SCPCL000480") ~ "A", 
  # Assign a value of "B" if the sample is instead one of these 
  merged_sce$sample %in% c("SCPCL000481", "SCPCL000482") ~ "B", 
)
```

Unlike `fastMNN`, `harmony` does not calculate corrected expression values nor does it return an SCE object.

> Like `fastMNN`, `harmony` performs integration on an uncorrected a corrected (integrated) PCA matrix.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like `fastMNN`, `harmony` performs integration on a merged PCA matrix.
```
I think this is what you mean?

)

# The result is a PCA matrix:
harmony_pca[1:5, 1:5]
```

As we did with `fastMNN` results, let's store this PCA matrix directly in our `merged_sce` object with an informative name that won't overwrite any of the existing PCA matrices.
We'll also calculate UMAP from it.

```{r save harmony}
# Store PCA as `harmony_PCA`
reducedDim(merged_sce, "harmony_PCA") <- harmony_pca

# As before, calculate UMAP on this PCA matrix:
merged_sce <- scater::runUMAP(merged_sce, 
                              dimred = "harmony_PCA", 
                              name   = "harmony_UMAP")
```

Let's see how the `harmony` UMAP, colored by sample, looks compared to the `fastMNN` UMAP:

```{r harmony umap batches}
scater::plotReducedDim(merged_sce,
                       dimred = "harmony_UMAP",
                       colour_by = "sample",
                       point_size = 0.5,
                       point_alpha = 0.2) +
  ggtitle("UMAP after integration with harmony") +
  guides(colour = guide_legend(override.aes = list(size = 3, alpha = 1))) 
```
This UMAP looks a little different from the `fastMNN` UMAP, in that `SCPCL000481` does not integrate as well with the other samples.

> Again, this might be explained by the presence of a unique cell type population in this sample.

Reviewer: Maybe just ask people to compare these?

Let's see how this UMAP looks colored by cell type, and faceted for visibility:

```{r harmony umap celltypes fine}
scater::plotReducedDim(merged_sce,
                       dimred = "harmony_UMAP",
                       colour_by = "celltype_broad",
                       point_size = 0.5,
                       point_alpha = 0.2,
                       # Specify variable for faceting
                       other_fields = "sample") +
  ggtitle("UMAP after integration with harmony") +
  guides(colour = guide_legend(override.aes = list(size = 3))) +
  facet_wrap(vars(sample))
```

> With the faceted view, we can now see that the small amounts of `Tumor_Mycote` from other samples are "pulled" towards those cells in `SCPCL000481`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the faceted view, we can now see that the small amounts of `Tumor_Myocyte` from other samples are "pulled" towards those cells in `SCPCL000481`. 
```
